FIRST COMPETITION
Wheeler's Robotics Team competes in FIRST's FTC competition. This is an international competition with nearly 80,000 teams participating. FIRST (“For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology”) was founded in 1989 by Dean Kamen, the inventor of the Segway. The goal of the competition is to inspire young people to take an interest in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) topics. Each year FTC (First Tech Challenge) comes up with a new challenge for robots to solve that usually involves blocks, balls, or other easily manipulated game pieces. For information on this year’s particular game and scoring, consult a team leader or the FIRST website.
HOW IS THE COMPETITION SET UP?
Although the game elements change from year to year, the competition always contains three rounds: autonomous, TeleOp, and endgame. During the autonomous period, robots run on a preprogrammed system that can have no human input for 30 seconds. This period usually has a high point potential. After the autonomous period is over, the TeleOp (teleoperation, the control of a device or machine remotely) round begins. During this period human players are allowed to control the robot’s actions. Scoring during the autonomous period and TeleOp period works slightly differently so be sure to understand the team’s goals during each section. The final round of the competition is the endgame, which is also TeleOp. This round allows for additional scoring and is also a crucial part of the game. Usually, the robot can score points in the same ways as the TeleOp round. However, during the endgame, there are additional scoring opportunities. Each round we are matched with an alliance team with whom we will work together to complete game objectives. During competitions go to http://theorangealliance.org/ for live updates on scoring and a live stream of the event.
About Us
Team 252 is a part of the FTC Rhode Island region and has competed for almost a decade and a half. During the season, our 18 members put in hundreds of hours of work and dedication to build the best robot we can. Based out of The Wheeler School in Providence, Rhode Island, we compete against 26 teams from across the state. Recently, we placed First at the Rhode Island FTC Championship, earning us an invitation to attend the World Championship in Texas where we will compete against nearly 200 of the best teams from across the globe. As a team, we emphasize developing team members skills using CAD programs, programming in Java, as well as developing their use of the engineering design process.

Why Contribute
The Electric Quahogs aims to develop the next generation of engineers, developers, and designers, by expose students to cutting edge technologies, industry professionals, and by providing them the resources to learn and embrace the engineering design process. Students learn industry skill such as CAD and programming in Java and are given access to rapid prototyping tools such as a laser cutter and 3D printers. These resources allow students to develop “hard skills” that will benefit them as they further pursue their interest in robotics. We also develop students “soft skills,” such as the ability to work on a team, manage time, communication skills, among many more. As sponsors, you will be furthering this mission and allowing more students to benefit from our program. Our program exists thanks to the tireless effort of volunteers, mentors, and coaches, but could not be sustained without various individuals and businesses financial support. We work to spread awareness of our sponsors by putting their logos on highly visible areas such as our robot and our shirts.
To donate, please contact our head coach Dylan Ryder at: dylanryder@wheelerschool.org
